# Predicting the City-Cycle Fuel Consumption in Miles per Gallon of a Car

## Project Overview 

The aim of this project was to develop a predictive model to classify the city-cycle fuel consumption (measured in miles per gallon) of a car. The objective is to assist car rental companies in making informed decisions when updating their fleets.
The initial dataset was designed for regression, but we have reframed the problem as a classification task by categorizing fuel efficiency into different classes (low, medium-low, medium-high and high efficiency).


## Directory Structure
```
project_root/
│-- data/                                 # Folder containing dataset files
│   │-- mpg_data.csv                      # Raw dataset
|   |-- curated_dataset.csv               # Dataset after curation,generated by 02_Data_Curation.ipynb
│-- notebooks/                            # Jupyter notebooks for different stages
│   │-- 01_EDA.ipynb                      # Exploratory Data Analysis
│   │-- 02_Data_Curation.ipynb            # Data preprocessing steps
│   │-- 03_Hyperparameter_Tuning.ipynb    # Finding best parameters for models
│   │-- 04_Ensemble_Modeling.ipynb        # Combining the best models with ensemble methods
|   |-- 05_Final_Model.ipynb              # The final model
│-- models/ 
│   │-- stacking_model.pkl      # The final stacking ensemble model
│-- requirements.txt            # List of dependencies
│-- config.yaml                 # Configuration file generated by Hyperparameter Tuning.ipynb
│-- README.md                   # Project documentation
```

## Dependencies
Ensure you have Python installed. Install dependencies using:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### Key Libraries Used:
- `numpy` & `pandas` for data manipulation
- `scikit-learn` for machine learning
- `matplotlib` & `seaborn` for data visualization
- `yaml` for configuration handling

## How to Run the Project
**Run the Notebooks in Order:**
   - **Exploratory Data Analysis:** `notebooks/01_EDA.ipynb`
   - **Data Curation:** `notebooks/02_Data_Curation.ipynb`
   - **Hyperparameter Tuning:** `notebooks/03_Hyperparameter_Tuning.ipynb`
   - **Ensemble Modeling:** `notebooks/04_Ensemble_Modeling.ipynb`
   - **Final Model:** `notebooks/05_Final Model.ipynb`

   Each notebook contains specific steps from data exploration to final model evaluation.


## Configuration
The `config.yaml` file defines model parameters. This file is generated when running the `03_Hyperparameter_Tuning.ipynb` notebook, by selecting the best parameters for each of the selected models. You can also modify it manually in case you want to adjust the hyperparameters for any of the models.

## Ensemble Modeling
This project employs ensemble learning to improve prediction accuracy. The `config.yaml` file allows configuring various ensemble techniques:
- **Voting** 
- **Stacking** 

## Results
- The final selected ensemble model is stored in `models/`.
- The final trained model can be used for fuel efficiency classification.


## Authors

### Team 3 

- Bligiannou Marianthi
- Diamantidou Ioanna
- Leventi Konstantina
- Tsingani-Papanikolaou Angeliki

